[Music]
hey if I could go back in time and talk
to myself at age 22 ah Who am I kidding
there was no getting through to that kid
now not to sound like an old guy dishing
out all my wise advice to the young uns
but if you can still avoid these common
money mistakes people make in their 20s
trust me you'll be doing yourself a big
favor number one trying to keep up with
the Joneses we all have at least one
friend who's constantly getting the
latest and greatest new phone designer
clothes
nice car vacations around the world and
how do you feel like a jealous boring
potato but chances are those people are
living their dream in debt up to their
eyeballs don't try to keep up with the
cool kids if it means owing the bank a
bunch of money plus interest number 2
buying an expensive car now I'm not
saying you shouldn't buy a car at all
but this is a balancing act most young
people want the cool brands at all the
celebs are driving but you know what
that g-wagen isn't just going to put you
in debilitating debt crisis for repairs
and maintenance will also be through the
roof that said don't go years throwing
money into your old-school clunker know
when it's time to upgrade but be
reasonable about your budget and
lifestyle I mean do you really need 500
horsepower to go buy groceries or sit in
traffic number three overspending on
rent remember the one golden financial
rule don't spend more than 30% of your
income after taxes on rent
in fact split your income 50 20 30 that
means 50% goes to rent food and
transportation altogether 20% goes to
savings and 30 percent on what you enjoy
also don't start fancying up your first
apartment with Pinterest inspired
remodels save that for when you own and
that time will likely come a little
later
number four moving to the big city well
unless you're doing it for an awesome
well-paid job you've been offered think
twice before heading to a major city
they do have round-the-clock
entertainment shopping and endless
cultural events but are you sure you can
afford all of that at the moment you
might not even have enough left for the
fun stuff after you pay for your rent
bills and groceries number five
overspending on food when you finally
move out of your folks house and you
don't have your parents cooking for you
every day it's too tempting to eat out
and order delivery for every meal fast
food may seem cheap but when you compare
it to cooking at home and packing
leftovers to work for lunch it's a waste
also take full advantage of coupons and
deals on groceries and look at the price
tags seriously a lot of young people
just grab what they need and head to the
checkout lines number six diving
headfirst into credit cards now your
parents might tell you it's a good way
to build your credit but that's only if
you're responsible with that magic
plastic card if it's too tempting for
you to swipe the credit card on luxury
stuff you don't even need or if you
can't afford to make the monthly
payments hold off on diving into the
credit world it's best to wait until
you've got a decent job and a reasonable
head on your shoulders then to get a
card not make payments on time and ruin
your credit number 7 not caring about
your credit history now let's say you're
ready to take that dive break again
if you use your credit card responsibly
make all your payments on time don't
open too many accounts at once and keep
the amount of credit you actually use as
low as you can compare to your limit and
don't forget that your other bills like
electric internet and so on can't affect
your score you don't get brownie points
for paying those on time but it can hurt
you if you don't pay and the company
reports it to a debt collector and check
your credit score periodically there
might be a mistake on there and you
should know so you can dispute it
number eight not planning for retirement
here's a surprising fact most
20-somethings don't consider the sooner
you start putting money into a 401k or
some other retirement account the more
time this money will have to gather
interest and grow into some serious cash
for your golden years think about it if
you start saving retirement money at age
25 you'll have 50% more time than if you
start at 35 it's a good idea to put
aside ten to fifteen percent of your
income just for your retirement plan yes
even when you're in your 20s and
retirement is many many years away
number nine not taking student loans
seriously although it's nice when you
can avoid taking out student loans in
the first place the sad truth is a lot
of us are stuck with them for years even
decades after we finish school my advice
is to make your loans your number one
priority in your 20s and put the biggest
dent in them that you can your other
choice to put them in deferment or
forbearance it's like a pause in your
payments so that you can save up for a
beach getaway with your friends look so
nice but you know that big stone ball
rolling down the tunnel chasing you
trying to crush you like Indiana Jones
is what debt looks like close up once
you get older your money will be going
to all the fun things that come with age
home renovations your family health
bills come on make it easier on your
future self number 10 ignoring insurance
when you're young and full of energy you
feel untouchable
unfortunately no one in this world is
100% safe from any troubles disasters or
illnesses renter's insurance will save
you tons of money in case of a fire
flood or break-in medical insurance is a
must for emergencies that can otherwise
cost thousands of dollars have a cushion
under yourself in case bad things happen
eleven cutting financial corners in all
the wrong ways how can you even consider
getting regular medical check-ups when
you're twenty something broke as a joke
overwork and having sleep for dinner
every night because your student loans
rent and bills are eating up your whole
paycheck I know I was there too but
cutting corners at the expense of your
physical and mental health is not the
way to do it there are healthier ways to
deal with your financial troubles talk
to your lenders about getting on a plan
that fits your income if your pay is
really so minuscule that you can't feed
yourself well then it might be a good
time to negotiate your salary look for
something better or even come up with a
good side hustle twelve avoiding
calculated risks
yes changing jobs is a risk especially
when you need money but if there's a
skill you've always wanted to learn do
it now if you've always wanted to start
your own business try it it's always
easier and wiser to do all those things
before you'll have to consider the needs
of others like your partner or kids
those calculated and well-thought-out
risks are often worth it both
financially and lifeWise 13 not
discussing money issues with your
significant other your 20s are your
first step in adulting and that often
means living with your significant other
and boy is that a real test instead of
all the rainbows and butterflies you'll
now be sharing bills
setting aside a certain amount for
mutual goals and talking about money or
at least finances should make their way
into your conversations
it may seem uncomfortable to talk about
money with your partner but you have to
do it if you plan to get serious with
that person if you have vastly different
views on saving investing and spending
you'll be unlikely to reach any
financial goals together
14 getting pets hey I love pets as much
as the next guy but they are expensive
there's no doubt about that
food toys vaccines unforeseen vet trips
oh that last one yeah if you're barely
getting by taking care of yourself how
can you bring in a furry friend and
afford all that stuff pets come with a
whole slew of financial obligations
so only get one when you and your bank
account are absolutely ready fifteen
impatience I'd say the number one
biggest mistake people in their 20s make
is thinking they should have their
financial and professional life already
in order they expect their first job to
be their ideal career they want the
nicest apartment or house immediately
and nowadays a lot aren't willing to
settle for anything less than perfect
listen you'll change jobs there will be
plenty of times when you need to tighten
your belt
trust me it's all good for you you'll
have both good and bad experiences but
they'll all help you in the end
so how about you are you also guilty of
any of these mistakes let me know down
in the comments and by the way don't
feel guilty just learn from it and move
on if you learn something new today
think if this video will like and share
with a friend but hey don't go open any
new credit accounts just yet we have
over two thousand cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is click on
this video to the left or maybe that one
on the right enjoy and always stay on
the bright side of life